So let's go onto the Signals column. So what signals, what things are we going to track in order to know about happiness?
Well, how about the AppStore rating?
That's a pretty good signal for the happiness of
people using the app. If you don't believe me,
just go to any app, any popular app,
look at all the ratings, and people who are saying
"Oh, I love this thing," or "Oh, I hate this thing."
This is a really good number to judge happiness from.
Secondly, we could track the scores from the NPS survey.
Do you remember what that was?
Net Promoter Score.
That's just kind of an industry standard way of measuring
user happiness through a score through 1
to 10 that they say "I am very likely or
not very likely to recommend this to a friend."
So how about for engagement? What signal should we track there?
Well, how about the number of orders per customer,
let's say, in a period of a day or something, and then
how about the order value?
So we want to get them to order as much stuff in one
basically order as possible, as many dollars worth
of product as we can possibly get them to do.
So what do we need to track for adoption as a signal?
What is that thing that we need to be able
to extract from a database or whatever?
Well, we know that we need to know the number of people who have ordered at least one glass of lemonade using our app.
That's what we are calling adopted.
These people have adopted our product,
because they've tried it at least once.
That's the thing we need to track. Who has done this at least once?
Now, on the other hand, we need to be able to find out
how that compares to people who have not adopted
the product, but they have downloaded the app
or downloaded it and then uninstalled it, for instance.
So we also need to know the number of people
that have downloaded it in total,
because we want to be able to compare these two, remember?
So the signal for retention is just going to be, we just
need to know who has ordered spiked lemonade, and
we actually also need to know that time periods when
they have done that, so that we can say, okay, this
was in one month, and then this other time they did it
in the next month, but we're assuming, because this
is Signals, this is the thing we're tracking,
this stuff is in a database somewhere.
Databases always carry what's called a time stamp,
so we always know when a particular thing
happened in a database.
So for task success, what should our signals be there?
Well, how about the number of people
who did not complete an order?
What do we need from that, like,
what in the database should we track?
How about just the people that have added something
to their cart and they never actually went
and clicked on the, you know, "finalize purchase" button?
And, if you remember, we were concerned with the people
that are ordering within that five-minute window,
because we want our app to be super quick to order stuff,
so we need to know the amount of time that people are
spending from opening the app and saying "Yeah,
I want to buy lemonade" all the way to the time where they have successfully clicked that sort of "finalize purchase" button.
So the last column, metrics, this is the easy one.
We just take our goal, and we take our signal, which is
a thing that we were actually physically going to track
in the database, and we just say over a period of time,
this is the metric.
So, for the happiness one, we said that we were
going to track the AppStore rating.
So, for happiness as a metric over time, we just say AppStore rating over time. What's the AppStore rating from month to month?
That's our metric. Then, because we're also
sending out those NPS surveys,
like I mentioned, we may also want to say,
"Okay, how many people have given us a perfect 10 score?"
What percentage of total users that have actually
filled out the survey have given us a perfect score?
Those are two really good indicators of happiness.
So, for the engagement, as a product manager at this
company or a CEO, we're going to want to know what
is the average order value of all of our customers per day.
By that I mean, let's say we have 100 customers and
all of them are placing orders in between $1 and $10.
If the average is $5, then that's the number we're seeing
when we pull up our metrics screen and we want
to basically move that closer and closer to 10 or further
than that, if we're shooting for a much larger
number. Then, we want to know the average
number of orders that the users make per day.
So, let's say, again, we have 100 users and, on average,
like 90 of them are placing one order a day,
but there are some power users, there are 10 people
that order like five or six of these per day.
We take all of that and we average it out.
That's the number that we'll be tracking over time.
So then, for adoption, again, we want to know some sort
of metric coming from the goal we have, and then
the signal which is, I think, in the database we're tracking.
What do we know about, how many people have
adopted this? What does adoption mean?
Well, we already said that it is people that
have ordered at least one glass of lemonade.
So what we're going to do is we're going to take the
number of people that have downloaded the app in
general, and we're going to find out what percentage
of them have actually ordered one successfully.
Notice how we divided those two things. We basically
say people that have made successful orders versus
people in general and we're going to call this metric the
new users to customers rate or, let's say, adoption rate.
So then, for retention, we're going to want to know
our retention rate, that's going to be our metric, because
we know, again, the only thing we were tracking
with the signals column was the, you know, for retention,
it was just, okay, who is ordering? So what people?
Maybe we assigned them an id in the database or something.
And again, we know that the database
has a time associated with it,
so we want to know, of the people that were here last month,
did they return this month? We're going to divide
those two and we're going to basically call them the
retained users and that will be our retention rate.
That's our metric.
Okay, so task success. If you remember,
on the goals part of the task access for this app,
we said that users should be able to check out really
quickly, because our app is really easy to use.
And, if you remember, on the signals part we said
in the database we're going to track how long people
spend in the app and specifically how long they spend
between the time they basically open it and indicate
they want to place an order to the time that
they actually complete that order.
So, for the metric that we're going to track here,
it's just going to be the average time it takes everyone
that uses our app to complete their order.
So if we have 100 users and they're taking, you know,
three minutes, four minutes, four and a half,
some are taking six or seven,
we take the average of that and we use that as our metric,
and we try to get that average as low as possible.
And then for minimizing abandoned carts, we wanted to know, remember, in the signals column, we wanted to
know the number of people that indicated
they wanted to start an order,
and then the number that actually completed the order,
and we just do the math there and then we have
a ratio of completed orders, and we have a ratio also of incomplete orders, and we said we were going to try to minimize that.
So that's it.
That's all of the stuff.
And if you put all this together, it's just a really big table.
So that's why I showed it to you sort of one column, one row
at a time, because it can look a little daunting at first.
So once you've got this all sort of filled out you
can just take a look at it, and it's a really good
guide to thinking about the kinds of stuff
that you should be potentially tracking.
However, there are some tips I want to give you on
using this framework, because there are a lot of open
questions I find when people use this for the first time.
First of all, people always ask whether or not you can use this for a product, or an entire company, or just a small feature.
Well, you can use this for anything. This framework,
the HEART metrics framework, is very flexible.
So you could use it at a small company in order to
think about the customer lifecycle journey through
the entire product that the company has, and you can also
use it at a huge company, where you're a product manager
on a team that is only working on a small feature,
because even features have adoption rates in this
sort of thing, and happiness with a particular feature, etc.
So you can use this for either, it's useful for both.
Second, this metrics framework is used for reporting metrics,
not exploratory metrics. Remember, exploratory
metrics were just data points we have in our database
that we can go query, like, whenever we want to
basically find out a little bit about user behavior,
but it's not stuff that we're saying to ourselves
"This needs to be on a dashboard."
So this framework is for the stuff that is on the dashboard,
it's the stuff that you do report up.
You report it to your investors, you report it
to your executives, or your boss.
That's what this framework is for - the reporting metrics.
Thirdly, it's important to know that you don't have
to use all of the metrics that you've come up with
when you're doing this exercise and putting together this table.
The reason is because it's pretty overwhelming.
There's a bunch of stuff you'll end up with in the metrics column,
where you're saying "Wow, I have to track all of these."
Well, it's not always the case that you need to track
every single one of these, but it's a good exercise to
sort of list out the things you might track, and then you
may only say "Oh, I only want to track engagement
and I only want to track happiness,
but the other stuff like task success or adoption,
I'm not going to track that, someone else will, or it's
not important to our company at this time."
So don't think you have to use everything.
Just pick the ones that you really think are very
important for your business or your product.
So the fourth thing is actually really cool,
and that is that the signals column can actually be
used as a sort of guide to what you need to do
on the engineering side to get a hold of these metrics
and put them in the database so that you can track them.
Let's say, again, that you don't have metrics being tracked
and you've got a new product or you're working
on a new feature at a company and you say "All right,
we need some metrics, because that's how we're going
to define success, and that's how
we're going to know if we succeeded."
And you don't have anything.
Well, basically, you could just do this exercise, you can
take the signals column, because, remember, that's
the stuff that we want to track, that's the actual data we need,
and you can just hand that, basically that column,
to your engineers, and talk it over with them, and be
like, "Here's the signals that I need from the database,
and then we need to basically turn them into a ratio and
express them as a metric."
But it's a really handy way to show engineers what
kind of data do you need from the back-end in order
to know whether or not you're doing well.
So that's it for the HEART metrics framework.
It's a really handy tool, more like an exercise, actually,
to get you thinking about metrics in a sort
of a way that follows the customer journey.
And on that note, the next lecture also does the
same thing in a little bit of a different way.
It's another metrics framework, and it's called
AARRR metrics, pirate metrics.
It's pretty common in Silicon Valley.
So check it out and I'll see you there.